README.md, before:

# TSPPH\_PerformanceAnalysis

This repository, like its submodule *TSPPartitionHeuristic*, is part of the "*Algorithms and Models for Discrete Optimization*" 2022/2023 course examination. The course is held at University of Rome, Tor Vergata.

Its focus is to test the performance of the *TSP Partition Heuristic* algorithm on various instances taken from TSP libraries found online, in order to check whether the heuristic can give useful solutions or not

# Layout of the repository

The definitive layout of the repository is yet to be defined, so  for the moment only an initial draft will be given:

  - TSPPartitionHeuristic : git submodule containing the heuristic's description and implementation

  - formatted\_instances : directory containing the library-compatible instances eventually converted from the online sources

  - resources : directory containing the instances files taken online

  - src : directory containing source code for the runners that generate the execution results of the algorithm

  - performance\_scripts : directory containing the script that generate the execution results of the algorithm

  - results : directory containing the results produced by instance processing

  - adapters : directory containing scripts written in order to transform the instances

  - analyzers : directory containing software for statistical processing of the results
  
  - extra : directory containing intermediate scripts used in the development process

# Building

The build system used by this project is `GNU Make`.
Here is a list of the targets that can be run

-
  ``` bash
    make convert
  ```

  to download the instances and convert them in a format readable from the _TSP Partition Heuristic_ library.

-
  ``` bash
    make performance_scripts_build
  ```

  to build the scripts that take the files generated from `make convert` and do performance evaluation on them.

  Note: to use the _HiGHS_ solver one of the following is needed :

  - Defining the environment variable `HIGHS_SOURCE_DIR` to the path in which the checkout command for _HiGHS_ has been run if there is a local build.

  - Defining the environment variable `HIGHS_INSTALL_DIR` to the path in which _HiGHS_ has been installed in case of a custom installation.

  - Install _HiGHS_ in your system (see [here](https://ergo-code.github.io/HiGHS/dev/installation/#Compile-from-source)).

# Credits

The evaluated instances are taken from the following source(s) :

  - [TSPLIB95 : Gerhard Reinelt Universität Heidelberg Institut für Angewandte Mathematik](http://comopt.ifi.uni-heidelberg.de/software/TSPLIB95/)

As for the tests in TSPPartitionHeuristic, the solver used for the performance evaluation is HiGHS, see :

- Parallelizing the dual revised simplex method Q. Huangfu and J. A. J. Hall Mathematical Programming Computation, 10 (1), 119-142, 2018. DOI: 10.1007/s12532-017-0130-5

Commit message:

Solved a bug in solver: the conversion from double to char was too naive, now a threshold approach has been adopted
Wrote a script to generate instances similar to the one in the TSP Partition Heuristic library.

Wrote a script that benches the time to process instances of various sizes, in order to understand the limits in which the threshold can vary, and automated the build process.

Added some sample instances too.

README.md, after:

# TSPPH\_PerformanceAnalysis

This repository, like its submodule *TSPPartitionHeuristic*, is part of the "*Algorithms and Models for Discrete Optimization*" 2022/2023 course examination. The course is held at University of Rome, Tor Vergata.

Its focus is to test the performance of the *TSP Partition Heuristic* algorithm on various instances taken from TSP libraries found online, in order to check whether the heuristic can give useful solutions or not

# Layout of the repository

The definitive layout of the repository is yet to be defined, so  for the moment only an initial draft will be given:

  - TSPPartitionHeuristic : git submodule containing the heuristic's description and implementation

  - formatted\_instances : directory containing the library-compatible instances eventually converted from the online sources

  - resources : directory containing the instances files taken online

  - src : directory containing source code for the runners that generate the execution results of the algorithm

  - performance\_scripts : directory containing the script that generate the execution results of the algorithm

  - results : directory containing the results produced by instance processing

  - adapters : directory containing scripts written in order to transform the instances

  - analyzers : directory containing software for statistical processing of the results
  
  - extra : directory containing intermediate scripts used in the development process

# Building

The build system used by this project is `GNU Make`.
Here is a list of the targets that can be run

-
  ``` bash
    make convert
  ```

  to download the instances and convert them in a format readable from the _TSP Partition Heuristic_ library.

-
  ``` bash
    make performance_scripts_build
  ```

  to build the scripts that take the files generated from `make convert` and do performance evaluation on them.

  Note: to use the _HiGHS_ solver one of the following is needed :

  - Defining the environment variable `HIGHS_SOURCE_DIR` to the path in which the checkout command for _HiGHS_ has been run if there is a local build.

  - Defining the environment variable `HIGHS_INSTALL_DIR` to the path in which _HiGHS_ has been installed in case of a custom installation.

  - Install _HiGHS_ in your system (see [here](https://ergo-code.github.io/HiGHS/dev/installation/#Compile-from-source)).

- 
  ``` bash
    make non_relaxed_time_analysis_build
  ```

  to build the scripts that test your PC's ability to solve instances of a certain dimension, useful for configuring the algorithm threshold. Like above, _HiGHS_ or other solvers are needed.


# Credits

The evaluated instances are taken from the following source(s) :

  - [TSPLIB95 : Gerhard Reinelt Universität Heidelberg Institut für Angewandte Mathematik](http://comopt.ifi.uni-heidelberg.de/software/TSPLIB95/)

As for the tests in TSPPartitionHeuristic, the solver used for the performance evaluation is HiGHS, see :

- Parallelizing the dual revised simplex method Q. Huangfu and J. A. J. Hall Mathematical Programming Computation, 10 (1), 119-142, 2018. DOI: 10.1007/s12532-017-0130-5
